
# Gravity, love and attention: you are what you think more often about

Theres an  interesting correspondance between the sun as the celestial body that has more mass and thus the biggest gravitational field in the solar system, and the eyes - for reference the sun being declared the second most important personality component in vedic astrology, as its responsible for giving universal order to all the other planets: an orbit. Here the intuition is simple. The sun is the more massive object so the rest of the planets organize themselves around it. But what exactly does this have to with light, and what does light have to do with gravity?

One of the emergent properties of both neural networks, and gravity networks, is that they are capable of message-passing corrupt signals to their area of influence, with the area of influence being proportional to the graviational field of the object. This message exchange basically sends a miniature version of the object as a projection in space, which in turns makes the measured signal at the other end being commuted as a reflective property of the originator; which in turn gives substance to the idea of "quantum entaglement" - in this very much alive yet predatorial universe, every object uses gravity as a weighting channel to send auto-reflections that attempt to influence neighboor objects into assimilated versions of the originator object and make it "a version of themselves". This is specially virulent at the microscopic scale, and more layered in densities and substrates at the stellar scale where objects attempt to influence other objects into orbits or assimilation, with the exception of the extremely virulent black holes, which in this MLP-centric cosmovision of the universe; are esentially objects supported by weights which exploded.

Gravity has a close relationship to our eyes, as our eyes are the primary interface to the nervous system. Our nervous system, with its archetypal baggage of cultural, ancestral, instinctual and subjective weights, attempt to match objects within the field of vision to what the past has already declared them to likely be. The neural networks, from their subjectivity are actively communicating a sequence of symbols to the object where as the object reflects light and communicates back its proposed shape in a handshake of sorts. However this handshake is often not fair because of the reflective properties of the antropocentric mind, and even moreso the egotistical mind. Someone for instance ignorant or with a low threshold for novelty; or a person alienated too deep into the collapsed grasp of profound complexes: could be an hyperspecialized technical career, an act of bigotry and deflection...etc is not going to send back the proper sequence of symbols into the object, and will asimilate its properties under a specialized concept which only takes into account partial understandment: you can see this in inoffensive ways with early career graduates: they only know how to speak in terms of what they have been teached; so if you teach them something new, they will only understand it as an analogy of what they already know. The material networks which weight concepts are already exercising the corruptive capacities of gravity as a channel to send miniature versions of themselves: because real biological neural networks have feedback mechanisms during inference: the neural systems act in a cybernetic manner: with cybernetics being the science of "order defending itself against chaos". The techniques and general knowledge we acquire overfits us, get a life of their own, and will fight to death for their survival. To not being replaced. In this sense; everyone sees what they want to see, and everyone lives in a world of their own. All to keep the idea of an Ego stable.

So basically the component of cognition which formally declares sequences of symbols and assigns them to lower hierarchies is the sun (or whatever you want to call it), and thats its relationship to light. Light allows objects to be seen, and the eyes act as little "beacons" which in turn give plasiticity back to an object making it the subject of whatever the sequence decides it to be. This is intuitive for strange unexplained phenomena like "religious miracles"; esentially one could said that people doing them have extremly dense neural networks which communicate a hard corruptive ponderation; "belief" of what an object ought to be, in a manner that massively overwhelms the object turning it into something else entirely. Theres credit to give to Jesus when he said that "faith" could throw mountains into the sea.

Now the interesting thing is how all of this comes together into love; as love is an integrative act which allows us to understand things - more specifically the inmense complexity of a single person, and allow the reflections to leave a blueprint in ourselves. The difference between this and tiranny though is that the blueprint is mutually exchanged in a handshake; so the ponderation of the two people communicating plasticity is equal.

Thanks for reading.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=snfKu88iVmM&t=8s

