
# Beyond AGI: Data vs Operators 

A good framework for conciousness seems kidnapped  by the weight of its definiton over the shoulders of those who wield it – more specifically the subject that is aware of it, and has approximated a definition for it yet cannot progress without doing a projection thats gets back into the point of origin: a mirror. And we do that all the time when we try to infer something about another human being. Projection is the heart of most human interactions. 

Now after years ruminiating; the whole problem of AGI and our incapcity to master it, i think can be summarized as: can a computer of capacity 42 give accurate and complete definition about the full state of another identical computer of capacity 42 without ensuing a breakdown? Can my 32gb ram laptop process the operational state of a 32gb ram laptop with the same CPU specs running at full load, while it does the simulation at the same time? In my opinion its spookily and somewhat reminiscent of another substantial problem – one that has no solution. The halting problem. 

This i think is what makes conciousness, very difficult to conceptualize. Coming up with even a good definition is hard, because esentially the requisites for such an exercise place us at the limitations of what we can, and we cannot do. The figurative can-do: we have an universal function approximator built into our heads. The can’t: the function to approximate is all-posible-universal-function-approximators. Without getting into the ins and outs of computational complexity, must CS graduates would know that this is simply not posible. Who on earth is completely aware of their own selves in such a matter that all their actions map with mastery into result. The truth is, nobody is capable of that, and we have a name for it: in life as people we have to basicailly earn the rights to our sovereignty through experience.

Now the good news are: function approximators are like us, and get better with data – esentially the reason why a bunch of chimps are capable of feats that are reminiscent of superintelligence, yet very few people have understandment on how a basic MLP gives emergence to “order” from the figurative chaos of randomnly initiliazed numbers. It seems that in the early days, we hit some sort of proverbial jackpot with how the “trinitary” regression linear model (label, weight, and basis evenlope) seems to embed in a such a simple pacakge huge capacities for emergent complexity. Then we discovered transformers: but its the same pattern under a different set of operations. The good old trinitary: query, key and value.

Now the thing is that we do not wield AI, and we do not wield it because we dont understand it very well. We just shill for NVIDIA and build obsecene data centers, that can give our humble chicken of the golden eggs (the linear model) more data. More experience. Yet conciousness it seems is wrapped up into our most fundamental abstractions. It has to, because we conceived it. It kinda does at least. 

Further into the curious case of the linear model: esentially in the world you get three distinct operators, that embed all posibility of motion within themselves. You get fixedness, that can be conveniently modelled after integrals, you get cardinality which can be modelled after derivatives, and you get mutability; which is the union of those two operators into an equivalence that can be ponderated by a “weight”. I bet must electrical engineers that read this know where i’m getting at: the PID loop. The most famous and widely used control engineering technique. Here we have yet another impersonation of the linear model, but this time, in cybernetics which is basically the science of order containing and defending itself against “chaos”. But the difference is interesting becase the PID loop doesen’t care about data. It’s distinctly different from the all-mighty linear model, as the linear model tells us a defintion for mappings and the PID loop gives us an arrangement for the mapping of mappings.

In cultural slang: “its more meta, bro”

Now here i said something that is key to this essay and why i  named it: “beyond AGI”. 

“Loop”

Loop has a fancy name in mathematics and physcs: we call them oscillators. And oscillators are everywhere. Literally everywhere in the universe. We can see them in every aspect of our existance. We can even see them in ourselves trying to figure out AGI and bouncing back into projections: how we socially and ineptly bounce back into ourselves through a proejction when we try to badly understand the humanity of another person. How the universe quite possibly bounces back at you if you touch it at the edge of its expansion. Planets? They oscillate around a bigger thing. Particles? They all have angular momentum and hierarchically oscillate around a bigger thing, which makes them spinning shells. Basically, in the world of wheels and oscillators the case is not the pop-spirtual-bullshit term that everything is “energy”: the proper wording is that everything is actually motion.

As an AI person i’m personally more intersted in the science of loops, because it actually computes at precision and perfection consciousness. David Bohm, the theoretical physicist spoke of an "implicate order," a deeper and more fundamental level of reality where everything is interconnected. In his view, consciousness and the physical world are projections of this underlying order, suggesting a deep, holistic relationship between the mind and the universe. Esentially what this dude was implying is that if we figure out a better understandment of physics, we will breakthrough automatically AI without the problem of requiring crazy ammounts of data to achieve it.

You get two paths esentially: keep doing aberrations with the linear model feeding it more data, or the PID. We have already kinda combined it them, with the PID as a special case of backpropagation loops, but it aint there yet because its not part of the inference. It needs to if we want a true breakthrough.

So where i think AGI is headed, well it would go deeper into the good ol trinitary prototype of reality. Combine the linear model with recursive PIDs: just like loops seem to be embedded within other loops in nature (hierarchy, everything always spings around a bigger thing). Very basic formulas, but applied compositionally and under massive scale; approximately to the ammount of neurons in our brain - which btw when they spike, are also spking bounded and unbounded oscillators, like the quantum particles.

So what would be left after AGI would be a world where we understand loops better. Possibly to an extent where we master ourselves without halting back into us when we reach out to another person. AGI will not be invented, it will be discovered, as the conscious answer within our means is not enough. Nature inspired methods will prevail.

Thanks for reading.

