
# Symbolic personality frameworks like the MBTI and Astrology: Why care at all?


Whether you believe that gravity compounds its influence in motion operators that all pull like a riptide the influence of neurotransmitters towards attention in specific things as seasons evolve (as more formally stated by astrology); the proper case is that the answer is not important. Pseudoscience or not, personality frameworks are extremely interesting in the era of GenAI because they give a granular specification for elements of cognition. They give you a very good framework to specify personas using granular components that compound themselves in higer order structures, if you use enough formality.

But until a massive breakthroguh is achieved in physics, we will never be able to tell for sure if the MBTI or Astrology are quantitavely "real" within scientific rigor. Why? Because the particle-wave duality is not confined to quantum mechanics. This is something every researcher in the world needs to get into their heads. De Broigle waves intuitively state that everything within the observable universe, at all scales, has a wave nature that makes perfect integration imposible to achieve. At best you just get to try many times and get consistent results at lower dimensions of "wave" superposition. This is the case for physics, but for the social sciences is extremely complex because for the study of human behavior theres way too much "wave superposition" -  theres some intuitive reasoning that gets you to think that these personality frameworks are real by the measure of personal empirical evidence (depending on how naturally intuitive your personality disposition is ofc), but at the end of the day; what you get is entaglement which in layman terms gets a very mundane name: projection. Esentially projection and entaglement are the same thing. You abstract the state of another subject with a supposition, and then your mind intuitevely frames in a specific point-like-state the naturally dillated wave-like nature of the subject with the correct sampling at the right time ignoring all the rest of the posible states of the functional wave. In simpler terms: you corrupt your own measurements of the intersubjective experience, by providing an expectation; then the expectation acts like a virus and the rest is history. You get a cognitive belief.

Belief is interesting because it allows us to keep ourselves as computers of capacity 42, in motion in a landscape where other incomputable and unintegrable computers with state 42 are inmesurable: esentially belief evolved as a mechanism to allow humans to not be perpetually terrified of other humans.That is incapable to operate because of information overload. But belief is not very compatible with scientific methodology. 

But anyway. Theres a very interesting website which has been operating for a lot fo time: its called mbti-database and esentially designates the responsability of giving a person a tipology as a distributed task where each participant with their own partial understandment provide a projection and vote for a specific type of the analyzed subject: if the projections repeat themselves enough (like a spiking neural net), and a type gets a significant higher voting that all other types, then you get a high chance of getting a well grounded type, unless the subject is an actor shifting personas for every role.

Very large scale councils of real people or ai agents all voting from swarm differnt perspectives is the best way to ""integrate" point like features of other humans. AI agents voting massively in all the permutations of personality frameworks is the future of cognitive science. Basically it gets back to other entry i wrote. A computer of capacity 42 will never be able to simualte another computer of capcity 42 while keeping itself operative at the same time it does the simulation. It halts. But what about six computer that each are 42 emulating a single 42 computer?

AI is pretty crap, lets be honest; the only silver lining is chinese labs pushing local llms for the access of everyone with enough RAM: esentially AI right now, albeit highly dangeorus because of identity theft, is still highly useful. AGI in the other hand, will devour the entire economical landscape, but current AI up until hierarhical reasoning is extremely powerful - there has to be some fictional universe already where AI is banned at the AGI scale but allowed at the approximated current state. If you are a researcher in psychology this couldnt be more exciting times.

